Hi, my name is Brian Caffo and
this is the lecture on report writing as
part of the Executive Data Science series.
So report writing is, often
the case you get reports that
are just really problematic.
And I think that's more of
the norm than getting clear,
concise, reproducible reports
that have a obvious and
clear narrative and tell a clear story.
More often, your reports are a little
bit of a mis-mash of thoughts.
And so in this lecture, what we're
going to talk about are some tools
that will help at least certain
aspects of the report writing.
Of course, there's a lot to
whatever specific area you're in
to the art in that area of how your
reports are gonna get generated.
But some of these tools
are ubiquitous enough across
scenarios that we can give
some general recommendations.
So, in a perfect world,
reports would be clear and
reproducible, kind of the two
most important characteristics.
And so
we're just gonna give three strategies for
helping manage report writing.
The first one I can say, which seems
ridiculous, but it seems to help a lot and
it's encouraged checking the signs,
the magnitudes and
the units of effects that are reported.
The second one is to focus
on interpretation and
interpretability of the report.
And the third is to use
reproducible research tools.
So let me just briefly elaborate on
this point on checking the signs,
the magnitudes, and the units.
So the signs, for example,
what do I mean by that?
I basically mean to check to make
sure the directions of the effects
are as anticipated.
And this can often happen in a case.
The worst example of this is when
the report only gives the output of
a regression analysis without actually
interpreting the coefficients.
Well the most basic form of interpretation
of the coefficient is just checking
that it's in the direction that
everyone would anticipate that it's in.
So in this case I said,
are brain volumes decreasing with
increasing Alzheimer's disease symptoms?
If you saw the opposite effect if
you saw a brain volumes increasing,
then you would be worried.
Or at least that would
merit some explanation.
The second idea was magnitudes.
We wanna compare the magnitudes
effects with other known effects.
So volume loss is similar to
a decade of normal aging,
is akin to the example
we gave from before.
So we've talked about this idea
before of taking effects for
things that you're studying that you don't
know a lot about, and contrasting them
with the effects of things that you know a
lot about, like normal aging in this case.
The third thing is the units.
And I can't stress this enough,
make sure that the units are known,
they're written out explicitly and
they're included on all graph axes.
So just to give you an anecdote,
at one point we were all sitting
around discussing an effect that
we saw for brain volume and
we realized that we had messed up the
units at some point and people's brains
were supposedly growing at the size of a
house every year, or something like that.
And it was only through the exercise
of checking the units and
making sure that the units of our
coefficient really made sense relative
to the context of the problem that
we kind of caught that error and
found that one of our variables had
been multiplied by a strange constant.
And so at any rate, the units, and
again it's a simple thing, but
just drill down on the units
on any given problem.
Understanding the units really
helps you understand the problem.
So the second point I made was to focus
on interpretation and interpretability.
So again, I'm gonna reiterate that
comparing effects to other known effects
is a great way to focus on
interpretation and interpretability.
The second way to focus
on interpretation and
interpretability is to
encourage so-called parsimony.
Parsimony, to me, is a key ingredient
to having interpretable models.
And what I mean by parsimony is using the
simplest possible model and no simpler.
In other words, I'm encouraging you
to place a premium on simplicity.
So if you have a regression model,
regression models tend to be pretty
simple models, that achieve 95% of
the prediction performance of some
complicated machine learning algorithm.
You might wanna just stick with the
regression model because that 5% penalty
of complexity is really a very high price.
You're losing a lot of interpretability
for that extra 5% prediction.
So in this case I would suggest
encouraging in the report writing
focusing on the regression results.
Or maybe doing both, but
especially reporting and
giving good interpretations of
the regression coefficient,
which are much more interpretable than
the output of a complex algorithm.
The third idea that I find very useful,
is the idea of what I like
to call effect critiquing.
And if you see a significant effect,
or something that's very exciting,
then what you want to do is
try to put yourself in the mind of someone
who would be a skeptic of that effect.
Try to be as skeptical and
critical as possible.
And once you're in that mindset,
then try to come up with
the counter-arguments for that effect.
Okay, so we saw this effect on lead
exposure and brain volume loss.
But was it really due to something else,
like the different
body mass indexes of the people who were
exposed to lead to the people who weren't?
So it's really not due to lead exposure,
it's really due to body mass.
Okay that would be
an example of a critique.
So what will we do?
We might consider a model that
then had lead exposure and
body mass in the model, just to see what
impact looking at both simultaneously did
on the effect that we're interested in,
the lead exposure.
Okay?
So the broader point in this case is to
think like a critic of your effect, and
that will inform additional analyses you
want to do to counter those arguments.
And I think, if possible,
you could get other groups of people to
serve in the role as an internal
critic in order to try to help you
generate new ways to poke and
prod at an exciting or
apparently significant effect, to poke and
prod at it and see if it really is real.
Now reproducability is a big
topic around here, Roger Peng,
one of the co instructors in the series
is one of the leading researchers and
thinkers on the idea of reproducibility.
But I love this Tweet by this person, Ben
Hamner, who I don't know, who said, When
you write code, keep in mind that you're
collaborating with your future self.
So, for reproducibility in a report,
you wanna make sure that these
reports can get regenerated.
You'll get the exact same numbers.
The report contains
the information available
to reproduce all of the numbers and
analyses in it.
Fortunately for
the people that you're managing,
there are a lot of tools
available now that merge
the data analysis and
the report writing into a single document.
And the two most popular in my mind are
knitr, which is a tool for R specifically,
and the idea is knitting the analysis and
the report writing together.
And then IPython Notebooks
are another one.
And you should highly encourage the people
you're managing to use tools like these.
Maybe not these specific tools, but
I would recommend these specific tools.
But tools like these, in order to make
sure that your reports are reproducible
and they leave a documented trail
of exactly how to go from
the data to the final analyses.
So these are three simple rules,
or three broad categories I think
that can help improve report writing
across a broad spectrum of areas.